---
title: Business Plan for Synsensora - Nanobody based biodetection systems
excerpt: >-
    As the business lead for the UW iGEM Undergraduate Research Team, I managed a team of students to develop a business portfolio to deliver for the international iGEM Synthetic Biology Competition. We conducted in depth market and industry research, engaged with potential customers, and developed a full business plan.
date: '2018-10-28'
thumb_img_path: images/iGEM/igem.png
thumb_img_alt: Synsensora Logo
layout: post
---

The **complete business portfolio** that my team delivered to competition is [here](http://2018.igem.org/Team:Washington/Entrepreneurship). The abstract from this portfolio is below.

### Overview
Washington iGEM’s business team is comprised not of business people or venture capitalists, but rather scientists and engineers passionate about bridging the gap between industry and the lab, thus enabling us to bring a unique perspective to our business endeavors. We feel that while research is a positive avenue for new discoveries, additional entrepreneurship that brings our team’s product to the market will drastically increase the impact of our project. As our novel nanobody detection systems could catalyze powerful improvements in healthcare and research practices, Washington iGEM has created a business plan for a potential company called SynSensora. We envision SynSensora to be a startup company that provides small molecule detection systems to institutions and biotech companies for use in metabolic engineering, point of care diagnostics, and cell therapies.

Our business team is collaborating with the Institute for Protein Design and a business mentor from the Buerk Center for Entrepreneurship at the University of Washington to develop not only biotechnology that will be valuable in market, but also a detailed business model detailing our plan to bring our venture to fruition. Our team has met with several potential customers, including Lumen Bioscience and the Institute for Systems Biology, and has received sponsorships from GenScript, PVP Biologics, and the Institute for Protein Design. We have learned much about business models and intellectual property protection, and our team is working with the Institute for Protein Design to establish a provisional patent for our SynSensora’s research and development protocol.

SynSensora’s products are based on biological detection systems that take advantage of chemically induced dimerization, a process in which two proteins bind together in the presence of a specific molecule. SynSensora detection systems would be used for small molecules, which are historically much more difficult to detect than proteins. These detection systems range from point of care diagnostics to transcriptional biosensors for metabolic pathway optimization. As our team is currently investigating nanobody-based detection systems targeting Vitamin D3 and Artemisinin while also developing a biosensor for CBD, these proof of concept studies will lay the foundation for SynSensora’s product line. The positive feedback we received from potential customers lends confidence to the efficacy of our technology and encourages the expansion of our library of molecules for which we would develop sensors. Ultimately, SynSensora would provide efficient and affordable small molecule detection systems for its customers as well as custom system development. Using an incredibly diverse nanobody library containing around 10^9 variant binders from our partner, the Institute for Protein Design, we could theoretically create detection systems for any small molecule. Thus, as customers request specialized detection systems for various small molecules, our product line would grow. Our established products would be sold a la carte, and our custom development service would range in price depending on the product constraints and development cost.

Our business team has synthesized research from potential customer interviews, database resources, and meetings about intellectual property to develop a plan to make SynSensora a reality. SynSensora has the potential to set a new standard for healthcare and research with affordable and effective small molecule biological detection systems.